# Bank Ledger Console Application & Web Application

This repository contains two applications that run a bank ledger program. One is a console program, and the other is a very basic web application. 

Both programs allow new users to create an account, login, and logout. Users can record deposits and withdrawals, get their account's balance, and view their transaction history. Unit tests for the console application are included (please see "Running the tests" below for instructions on how to run them).

Both applications were developed in Visual Studio Community 2019.

The console application is written in C#. 

The web application is based on an ASP.NET Core framework and written in C#, JavaScript, and HTML/CSS. The JavaScript and CSS are defaults generated by Visual Studio. The web application was tested using Google Chrome.


## Web Application--Things to Note

Per the specifications, no persistent storage (database) was used to store account information or login information. Rather, users and their login/authentication status are tracked via cookies, and by appending their username onto a cookie. Account information is stored in a dictionary, with the username being the key, and it is static.  

This means you MUST accept cookies for this web app to function. Please do so when running the program.

This is really not the best solution or best practice. Ideally, you would have a database storing user accounts and aiding login sessions. 


## Prerequisites

The easiest way to run these program is through Visual Studio: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/

You will also need to get the code from this Github repository.

Open Git Bash, and then type:

```
git clone https://github.com/emersone/BankLedger.git
```
Press Enter and your the clone should be created.


## Running the program

1. Download Visual Studio if it is not on your machine (see Prerequisites).
2. Clone the repository.
3. Open Visual Studio. Go to File-->Open-->Project Solution and open LedgerWebApp.sln. 

###To Run the Console App:

1. Go to the taskbar up top and find the green button. The dropdown menu to the left of the green arrow indicates the project you are on. Select LedgerApp.
2. Next, click on the green arrow to run the program.
3. The program should compile and a command line interface should appear.
4. You will need to create an account to fully test functionality.

###To Run the Web App:

1. Go to the taskbar up top and find the green button. The dropdown menu to the left of the green arrow indicates the project you are on. Select LedgerWebApp2.
2. Next, click on the green arrow to run the program. 
4. The program should start a browser and run. 
5. Accept cookies!
6. You will need to create an account to fully test functionality.


## Running the tests

There are unit tests for the console application. 

1. Open Visual Studio. Go to File-->Open-->Project Solution and open LedgerWebApp.sln. 
2. Open the Solution Explorer if it is not already open. Go to View-->Solution Explorer.
3. Right-click on LedgerAppTest.
4. Click Run Test.
5. View the test results, as well as the unit test code.


## General Sources Consulted

* Microsoft's C# documentation (various parts): https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/
* Programming with Mosh's C# tutorials on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/programmingwithmosh
* Tim Corey's C# tutorials on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/IAmTimCorey/
* More specific code sources consulted are sited in the programming files.


## Template Source

* https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2
